# Frequently Asked Questions
Here are some common questions and answers.


## Why is the default target Jetson?
The Jetson platform and specifically the Jetson AGX Orin 64GB is currently the best option for local digital intelligence. 
 - Cost: the development kit costs $2000 which is substantial for a stand-alone system, but nothing comes close to the value it provides. This is additionally important since it is a complete system. It requires no other parts or any additional hardware that could add additional dependency layers. It is a complete PC, and I'm using one right now to type this document. The price range for local digital intelligence ranges from a few hundred dollars for an entry-level consumer GPU/CPU/NPU/TPU/whatever-processing-unit, up through multiple thousands for a high-end consumer GPUs, up through tens of thousands for server TPUs, and finally up into the hundreds of thousands for entire server grade systems. In that wide range, a $2000 price tag is a realistic target for most end-users, if we are able to demonstrate what value that cost can provide.
 - Dependencies: The Jetson platform can directly use the CUDA ecosystem and requires minimal changes to run any software you want. While there are conflicts that occur due to the underlying ARM architecture and other system peculiarities, the platform is sufficiently mature that either NVIDIA or independent developers have been able to smooth out most of these rough edges.
 - Functionality: The main negative against Jetson is that it's tensor cores and memory are under-powered compared to other options. This is true, but this negative is more then over shadowed by the 64GB of memory that is directly usable by the tensor cores. No other consumer option has that and most server systems don't either. The way I look at that relationship is would you rather have a doctor make a diagnosis 5 seconds quicker, or a doctor who has 5 more years of medical school? Larger models have consistently translated into better intelligence when used correctly. More memory also enables the ability to have multiple smaller models loaded simultaneously, which can greatly improve performance for complex systems.
 - Reliability: The Jetson platform has been around for many years and it is battle tested in harsh conditions. It's designed for industrial usage, and while we aren't targeting the specific industrial variants of the hardware, the normal versions are extremely reliable as well. From my personal experience, one of my development units, a Jetson AGX Xavier, has been running essentially 24/7 at 100% workload for nearly 5 years, and it still runs perfectly. 
 - Performance/Watt: The Jetson systems are low power systems, and nothing comes close to their performance per watt. The Jetson AGX Orin uses up to 60W of power, and that is low enough to run off a portable battery. Compare that to high-end consumer GPU's needing 200-300+ watts or server tier cards needing even more; and neither of those numbers includes the entire system needed to run the card.
 - Potential: The Jetson platform has additional hardware and software functionality that currently isn't being used. The capabilities to off-load workloads to some of the platforms additional bundled hardware or to more effectively take advantage of the systems architecture from software, will only make the platform more functional.


## Why Digital Intelligence?
It's a unique way to describe the end product. It also isn't a large intuitive jump to understand what is meant by digital intelligence. 

Why digital instead of artificial is a slightly more nuanced question, it comes down to a few different reasons:
 - Calling these system digital intelligence provides for a natural comparison to analog intelligence. Humans and any other biological intelligence, are analog. This concept seems to hold true from what is currently understood in neuroscience and the nature of human cognition. There is some disagreement on what exactly analog means, but it's good enough for our use. Computers are digital, which means that any intelligence they demonstrate would be digital intelligence. This separation doesn't place one as better or worst then the other, just different. In fact it provides a potential basis for a symbiotic relationship. There are tasks that analog will be better at and there are tasks that digital will be better at; working together can be better then either individually. The digital revolution has already demonstrated that for us humans, we want to find a way to make sure that idea is useful and desirable for digital intelligence as well.
 - Artificial Intelligence as a concept has too much baggage. This has developed from both science-fiction and the modern start-up culture as well. You do not need to call your toaster artificially intelligent just because it's able to learn the color of toast you like over time. The military isn't going to let an analytics program take control of firing nuclear missiles. Yet those ideas cloud our perspective of what we are building, and that is the bigger problem. We need to clearly understand what we are doing, because these systems do have the potential to drastically change our world for the worst. By making a clean break in concepts, hopefully we can start to come to a better understanding of where we are and where this is going.
 - For an example of that understanding, the final reason for why digital instead of artificial comes from a philosophical word-game. In one hand you have a $100 bill, in the other hand you have an artificial $100 bill; if your life depended on it, which one would you burn first? The correct answer is burn both, but our human concepts include the idea of artificial being more disposable then the alternative. It is possible that at some point in the future, an "artificial" intelligence is not going to like that the humans think it is disposable. We are entering a world where philosophical curiosities begin to have very real effects that we can hardly understand or describe, and we need to address them before they become problems.


## Your Question Here
What else do you want to know?
